I am Maria Zankovetska. born in 1854 in
Zankiv, I am a Ukrainian theater actress.
I was a star of Ukrainian theater of the late
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries and am
one of the brightest females leads to have
played on the stages across the country.
I was born into a family of impoverished
landowners and noblemen. I was a graduate of
the Chernihiv City Female Gymnasium and in 1876,
I came out on a stage of the Nizhyn theater. The
city of Nizhyn became my native town where I kept
my own building. My professional career started
in 1882 in the Yelizavetgrad City Theater. My
first role was Natalka from the Kotlyarevsky play
"Natalka Poltavka". Later I participated among the
most popular and professional Ukrainian troupes.
My stage name Zankovetska was derived from
the name of the village where I was born.
My professional career at Zankovetska's
accounted for over 30 roles.
My characters were dramatic heroes.
I sang in a mezzo-soprano voice and
created images that were penetrated
with a real drama and a fiery comedy.
Having a charming voice, and a dramatic soprano,
I incomparably performed in Ukrainian folk songs.
In 1918, I organized a people's
theater. Several plays were set
among which were "Natalka Poltavka",
"Hetman Doroshenko", and "Aza the Gypsy".
In 1922 Ukraine triumphantly celebrated the 40th
anniversary of my career. I was the first person
in Ukraine to whom the government awarded the
high title of the People's Artist of the republic.
I died in 1934. Nearly all girls dream of becoming
actresses, but with time, this fancy fades away.
I hold tight to my dreams and
followed that light in my heart.
My message was heard across generations and
you too can let the world live your dream.